# Ford-Go-Bike-Systems
Ford-Go-Bike-Systems for Udacity Data Analysis
The dataset in this repository was retrieved from https://lyft.com/bikes/bay-wheels/system-data for all the files in the year of 2018.
## Exploratory 
From the exploratory part of the data analysis it was found out that age does not have an impact on the duration of bike use. Subscribers tended to ride for shorter periods of times as compared to non-subscribers. Females also rode for a longer period of time then males, although most of the users were males. There were more than 2x more males than females. Bikes were mostly ridden during the hotter months, however the duration of the rides were similar, except for in october. In october there were many bike riders, however the duration of the ride was shorter compared to other months.  The three county's where the bikes are based on had similar average duration of bike use.
## Explantory
The explantory analysis sought to compare other variables in relation to the duration of the rides. The duration of rides was chosen as the response variable because after 30 minutes, riders have to pay more money. We want to increase duration of the bike rides so that it is 'long' or greater than 30 minutes. This analysis looked for patterns in the duration so that we can target advertisements to those that ride for long periods of times. One variable that was explored was the age of the riders. However, it was found out that age does not have an impact on the duration of bike use.
